Certainly in that particular situation, it was a
gross misrepresentation of the facts. That was
simply not the case.
a non-issue, if you will. There was not that much
involved.
I can't help but, in retrospect, or looking at it
from the current perspective, wonder just
exactly what the situation is in other
demonstrations, if you will.
I'm untrusting of what I see presented in the media
as a major situation. I think that, well, I fear
that in many situations what looks like a major
demonstration may be just a very small group
making a very large amount of noise. Actually, the
only personal confrontation I had with Savio and
his followers was, I guess in retrospect, a
somewhat humorous situation that came up. When I
was at Berkeley working on my doctorate, I did my
research work at the Lawrence Radiation
Laboratory up on the hill. And it was literally up
on a hill. It was a long, steep road going up to the
laboratories. At that time, I managed to get back
and forth between home and the laboratories on a
Vespa motor scooter, which was not the most
powerful device I've ever had the privilege to
drive around. In order to get to the laboratory on
the Vespa, I would have to wind it up like a top at the
bottom of the hill and roar with all my heart right
up to the back door, because if I didn't, if I slowed
down on the way up the hill, I simply couldn't make
it. I would literally have to get off and push that
brute all the way to the top of the hill. There
was... One situation when Savio, trying to make
some point, I have not the foggiest notion as to
what it was at that time, but they decided that they
were going to boycott the Rad Lab, and various
members of Savio's following most of which,
incidentally, I don't think had any idea as to what
they were trying to say or what their
demonstration was about. But they blockaded or
tried to blockade the laboratory, and they did it
by means of setting up effectively human
barricades on the road. Well, I didn't know what
they were doing, but I came to work one morning, and
with my usual technique, I wound the Vespa up at the
bottom of the hill, and I was going hell-bent for
thunder for the top. And here they were, standing
in front of me, waving placards at me. And there was
no way I was going to push that Vespa all the way to
the top of that hill, so I just kept on going. And I'm
afraid that Savio's followers ended up thrashing
rather vigorously in the bushes by the time I got
by. But it's... I didn't really feel like I was
doing the system any real justice. I simply was
going to work.
Very recently there's been a good deal of
publicity given to a group called the Union of
Concerned Scientists and their claims of the
danger of of the nuclear industry and nuclear
energy as a as a source has been fairly widespread
what are your perceptions of their claims or or of
their group and have you had any personal dealing
with them i've certainly had no personal dealings
with them i got a number of flyers from them through
the mail and i get a lot of that kind of information
and after i'd glanced at the first couple of them I
decided that I would probably have to deal with it
as just more junk mail and I very frankly haven't
followed them that closely it's my understanding
that this is a group of
of well-educated personnel that are very
concerned about the use of nuclear reactors or
nuclear power in this country. I guess I, to a
certain extent, have to regard that type of
movement as principally being, well, as I say,
well-educated but uninformed non-experts. They
don't really know the technical details of the
nuclear industry, and I frankly feel, and this is a
personal opinion, I frankly feel that most of
their concerns are completely unfounded, and I
Although they certainly have the right to espouse
whatever opinions they choose to hold, I am
concerned, again from a personal perspective,
that they are in fact doing the country and modern
society something of a disservice dealing with it
in the way that they do. and not being specific with
regards to the Union of Concerned Scientists, but
I think other anti-nuclear movements or groups in
general, generally deal with the nuclear
question in terms of scare tactics.
And many of them understand more than they would
generally, one might generally suppose that they
do. But as far as I'm concerned, they deal with
things from the point of view of fear. They try to
frighten people rather than inform them. Many of
the claims that they make are totally specious and
are technically, I think, verging on the absurd. I
think that it's certainly true that the the use of
nuclear reactors nuclear power is not to be
regarded as a trivial risk there is risk
associated with with the devices i think there is
no question about it there are situations albeit
situations that are very, very improbable in my
estimation that can be dangerous. And the fact
that people are concerned about them is not at all
surprising or inappropriate. think that when
you're dealing with the hazardous situation or a
hazardous device it is only it only makes sense for
people to try to inform themselves as best they can
with regards to the real hazard and what the basis
for real concern is and if one on the basis of the
facts, comes to the conclusion that the hazard is
higher than is appropriate or than can be, well, in
this particular case, from a societal point of
view, can be tolerated, then that particular line
should not be pursued. I think, however, that is
not the way that the nuclear issue is being
handled. I frankly feel that
much of the
way that people are handling it almost comes under
the category of intentional obfuscation, the
confuse,
provide misinformation rather than trying to
clarify the situation, they make it as murky as
possible and make it as confused as possible. And
that is an approach that I frankly simply have no
tolerance for. Recent presidential
administrations have taken fairly strong stands
either for or against nuclear energy as a national
resource. Can you detail some of your
perspectives of President Carter and then
President Reagan's policy concerning nuclear
power? SECRETARY KERRY, Let me begin with
President Carter's administration. From the
perspective of the nuclear industry, President
Carter's administration was essentially a
disaster.
And let me hasten to note that what I'm going to say
now is strictly a personal opinion, but in my
estimation,
the stands, if you will, that the Carter
administration took with regards to nuclear
power were effectively based on what
is almost a total lack of understanding, in my
estimation, with regards to the purpose and
function hazards or lacks of hazards with regards
to nuclear power. President Carter, I think,
started out his administration on the wrong foot
with regards to the nuclear industry. I think his,
where he really shot himself in the foot was when he
contended that he was a nuclear engineer. He was
taken to task on that point very rapidly. I think
his closest association with things nuclear was
the fact that he had spent some few weeks or a month
or whatever on a nuclear submarine and in his
estimation that was sufficient to allow him to
contend that he was in fact a nuclear engineer. He
was very quickly called on that point and Once it
came to issue, it became a very quiet issue as far as
the administration was concerned. He was not, he
doesn't understand or didn't understand the
potential values of nuclear power. And I think
that he did the industry as a whole a severe
disservice, principally out of ignorance. And
that bothers me, that that kind of situation could
cause the damage that it did.
Do you believe that the current administration
has taken any steps to correct the attitude that
was held by President Carter's administration?
Okay, the Reagan administration. I think that the
Reagan administration is much more realistic in
their approach to nuclear power. They have one,
certainly one major item that they are pushing.
and possibly not at all inappropriate, but
President Reagan would like to turn the function
of nuclear power development over to the private
sector. That, I think, has some virtue. However,
from a pragmatic point of view, I'm not sure that
it's that realistic. The reason I say that is that
in general most of the the nuclear power systems
that are potentially available for development
involve times amounts of money and risk that is
financial risk that is still inappropriate for
the private sector i think that to a very major
extent it's going to be very difficult to talk the
private sector into getting involved in a very
major way in the development of major nuclear
power systems. I think one of the reasons is that
the private sector simply is not very trusting of
the national system, if you will, they were very
badly mistreated during the Carter
administration in the sense that they were
regulated almost out of existence. Governmental
regulations were conceived of and put into effect
that almost
destroyed the nuclear power development that was
going on the private sector had a great deal of
money and still has a great deal of money involved
or committed to development of nuclear power and
because of of
regulate regulatory
stands that the government took they were
effectively hamstrung and it cost an absolutely
ferocious amount of money. And I think that in
general the private sector is going to be very
reluctant to get back into that situation where
they have effectively put their own money at risk,
realizing that the government could effectively
hamstring them at any minute. think that they're
going to be very reluctant in the future to move
with any kind of vigor into that kind of a situation
again. During the last few years, one of the
strongest and most vocal proponents of the
nuclear programs in Washington and within the
administrations was Admiral Hyman Rickover in
his various capacities as nuclear advisor to the
president or to Congress. When he was retired,
that was quite a commotion. Do you see his
retirement as a positive influence on the
national programs? And what are your
perspectives of Admiral Rickover's recent work?
I certainly have never had any direct involvement
with Admiral Rickover. Just as a personal
opinion, I think that over the years his influence
has been a very positive one, not only from the
perspective of the nuclear industry, but
just generally from a social point of view. I think
he's been a very positive influence. I think that
he obviously did a very fine job in getting the
nuclear navy in place, the nuclear subs in
particular, I think can be given to Admiral
Rickover as a very positive accomplishment. He, I
think in some situations, went a little further
than
was practically advisable. that is trying to
develop a surface Navy that was atomic powered was
something that was really before its time, if its
time ever does come. But I think with regards to the
nuclear sub fleet that we have now, that is
essentially a
something that Admiral Rickover was essentially
responsible for in a fairly personal way. I think
that currently, well, that is the commotion that
you referred to with regards to his retirement, I
think Admiral Rickover did a fine job, and I think
that during the time that he was working
effectively, he was a very positive influence,
that everybody comes to the end of their rope, and I
think that the Admiral had just about outlived his
technological usefulness, and so I think that the
fact that he was retired when he was was
essentially appropriate.
In light of the current research and the current
information available, what do you see as the
state of the art in technology in specific regard
to plutonium technology?
That question covers a very, very wide range of
activities.
I think that, well, let me say that plutonium is a
material that is, from a scientific point of view,
is very fascinating to work with. It has a very
complex chemistry. It has an extremely complex
metallurgy. I think there is obviously a great
deal of work that is being done and needs to be done
in the future from a purely scientific point of
view. I think that there are a number of
developments that are in the offing. for
instance, with regards to the metallurgy of
plutonium that are of potential great value to the
weapons programs in the country. I think there's a
great deal of very interesting work that is being
done. And I think that certainly significant
developments relative to the manufacture of
plutonium and the processing of plutonium in one
light or another that will be a substantial
advantage with regards to the weapons industry.
In other areas, for instance, reactor fuels,
there's a great deal of work to be done there.
The principal place where plutonium is used in the
reactor industry is with regards to the
development and operation of, at the present
time, liquid metal fast breeder reactors. That is
the primary place where plutonium would be used in
the reactor industry. There's a great deal to be
done there. Frankly, I think that the LMFBR
industry in the United States is operating at a
severe disadvantage. Well, and by disadvantage I
mean that the LMFBR development in this country
has been very heavily well,
has been held back to a very major extent because of
the regulatory problems that I mentioned a moment
ago.
Well, the development of LMFBRs in this country is
very substantially behind that in many of the
other major countries around the world. The
French, for instance, are really at the forefront
of development. The Germans are working. The
British have a substantial amount going that is
significantly in advance of what we're doing now.
Unfortunately, it's really kind of interesting
with the fact that because of the anti-nuclear
movements, and the various regulatory problems
that the LMFBR people have run into in this country
that led to the LMFBR being effectively
downplayed or downgraded has had an interesting
reflection in some of the European countries that
were vigorously moving toward the development of
an LMFBR. we began to back up and for some reason
they started backing up too and it's almost as
though it was a the system became unstable to a
certain extent and much of the the pressure or
impetus if you will to the development of LMFBRs
has begun to to lose its momentum And that I
personally feel
is going to be a very major problem not very many
years into the future. I can see very major
difficulties on the horizon with regards to the
availability of power. And the LMFBR was
originally intended to help close that gap. But
it's beginning to appear to me that that gap is not
only not being closed, we're losing ground on it.
And there may be, there may come a time when the
power situation in the world will make us all rue
the day that the LNFBR was What are the problems
with the LMFBR that inspire the over-regulation
or the dissent against that program? I think the
dissent is primarily based on concerns with
safety. There are several scenarios, many of
which in my estimation are simply not credible.
that lead some to feel that the LMFBR is simply not
safe to have
in the country. They envision LMFBRs, or reactors
in general, as effectively being a a bomb sitting
there waiting to explode, and that simply is not
the case. They cannot explode in that way. I must
hasten to add that reactors are not without risk.
There are things that can happen that can cause
problems. However, I think many of the problems
that are effectively suggested as being probable
are really extremely unlikely situations and I
think they're just not at all, they're so unlikely
that they really in my estimation should be of no
major concern. One of the other things that is
leading to concern about the LMFBR is the fact that
many people, and I'm sure they are expert in their
area, are suggesting that uranium reserves in
this country are such that the LMFBR truly is not
needed. And by that I mean that you can operate
power reactors as
as the light water reactors are operated now. You
simply burn the uranium and throw away the fission
products and that's that. And you don't have any
mechanism for continuing to grow new fissile
material. That is the virtue of the breeder. It
effectively manufactures more fuel than it
burns. That is fine as long as you have of
sufficient uranium to keep the system operating
effectively ad infinitum. I, frankly, am not very
comfortable with that new plan. I'm afraid we're
going to need it over here, and it may be too late
once it's really recognized as being needed.
Dr. Green, in conclusion, do you feel that since
its conception that the nuclear industry or the
field of nuclear research has advanced, and if so,
do you believe that it will continue to be a viable
source or an energy program in the future? Well, I
think from a technological point of view, over the
few years that the industry has been in existence,
technologically there have been tremendous
advances. Unfortunately, it almost appears
like, in a political sense, the industry has been
marching backwards. That is to say that its
acceptance by the man on the street has degraded
very dramatically and in a very discouraging way,
as far as I'm concerned. It's really too bad, I
think, that people have developed such a
mistrust. And I think that, as I said earlier, I
think a great deal of that mistrust is born of fear,
and most of the fear is born in ignorance. And I wish
we could turn that around.